Adding shadow testing documentation (#456)
microsoft/code-with-engineering-playbook: automated-testing/shadow-testing/readme.md

> # Shadow Testing

Author: Thanks @RichCzyzewski I've updated the document using template.

> Shadow testing is one of the useful approaches to reduce risks when you consider to replace the current environment (V-Current) with candidate environment with new feature (V-Next). This approach is monitoring and capturing differences between two environments then compare and reduces all risks before you introduce a new feature/release.

Reviewer: nit: can you split long text lines into multiple consecutive ones, the MD viewer would render them all as part of the same paragraph either way, but having multiple lines would make it more readable and easier to review during a PR. This applies to other paragraphs as well.

Author: Thanks @alkofahi ,fixed this issue.

This approach is also known as "Shadow Deployment" or "Shadowing Traffic" and similarities with "Dark launching"

In our test cases, code coverage is very important however sometimes providing code coverage can be tricky to replicate real-life combinations and possibilities. In this approach, to test V-Next environment we have side by side deployment, we're replicating the same traffic with V-Current environment and directing same traffic to V-Next environment, the only difference is we don't return any response from V-Next environment to users.

> ![Shadow Testing Overview](images/shadow-testing.png)

Author: Thanks @RichCzyzewski , I updated the diagram to show comparison between two systems.

 Referencing back to one of the [Principles of Chaos Engineering](https://principlesofchaos.org/), mentions importance of sampling real traffic like below:

> Systems behave differently depending on environment and traffic patterns. Since the behavior of utilization can change at any time, sampling real traffic is the only way to reliably capture the request path. To guarantee both authenticity of the way in which the system is exercised and relevance to the current deployed system, Chaos strongly prefers to experiment directly on production traffic.

> With this Shadow Testing approach we're leveraging real customer behavior in V-Next environment with sampling real traffic and mitigating the risks which users may face on production.

Reviewer 2: We may want to talk about the scaling of the shadow environment. If we talking about replaying 100% of the traffic, then the V-Next environment would have to be scaled similarly to the v-current.

Author: Thanks @RichCzyzewski, great point, I added this into document as well.

> We're testing actual behavior of the product and this cause zero impact to production to test new features since traffic is replicated to V-next environment.

Reviewer: nit: merge this paragraph with the one above it?

Author: Thanks @alkofahi, it's fixed.

There're some similarities with [Dark Launching](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DarkLaunching.html), Dark Launching propose to integrate new feature into production release code and users are not able to see this feature, on the backend you can test your feature and improve the performance until it's acceptable. Also [Feature Toggle](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/FeatureToggle.html) approach is providing you an ability to enable/disable your new feature on the production on UI level, with this approach your new feature will be visible to users and you can collect feedback. Using Dark Launching with Feature Toggle approach can be very useful for introducing a new feature.

> ## Shadow Testing Frameworks and Tools

Reviewer: It would be great to discuss what the tools would do in general vs focusing on a specific one. We can list some tools as examples. Please see the test type template in the repo for more context

Author: Thanks @alkofahi, I've updated the tools section with more samples. I just put Diffy as an example since it focus on just shadow testing and explains purpose of shadow testing with their description. Is it possible to check the updated tools section after changes? What do you think?

> There are some tools to implement shadow testing, the most popular one is [Diffy](https://github.com/opendiffy/diffy). It was created and used at Twitter then original author and a former Twitter employee maintains their own version of this project, called [Opendiffy](https://github.com/opendiffy/diffy). Twitter announced this tool on the blog as "[Testing services without writing tests](https://blog.twitter.com/engineering/en_us/a/2015/diffy-testing-services-without-writing-tests.html)".

Author: Yes, what I found is the most popular one was Diffy, I've updated with other tool options.

>  As of today Diffy is used in production by Twitter, Airbnb, Airbnb, Baidu and Bytedance companies.

Reviewer: Airbnb mentioned twice

Author: Thanks @alkofahi, it's fixed.

> > Diffy finds potential bugs in your service using running instances of your new code and your old code side by side. Diffy behaves as a proxy and multicasts whatever requests it receives to each of the running instances. It then compares the responses, and reports any regressions that may surface from those comparisons. The premise for Diffy is that if two implementations of the service return “similar” responses for a sufficiently large and diverse set of requests, then the two implementations can be treated as equivalent and the newer implementation is regression-free.

Reviewer: So Diffy does expect a response from V-Next? If so, this conflicts with what was mentioned earlier, could u plz fix that

Author: Thank you so much @alkofahi, yes we're using responses to compare with V-Current responses. I've updated previous mention and diagram as well. Thanks for highlighting this point.

# Shadow Testing

> Shadow testing is one of the useful approaches to reduce risks before going to production. This approach is also known as "Shadow Deployment" or "Shadowing Traffic" and similarities with "Dark launching".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Shadow testing is one approach to reduce risks before going to production. Shadow testing is also known as "Shadow Deployment" or "Shadowing Traffic" and similarities with "Dark launching".
```

## When to use

Shadow Testing reduces risks when you consider to replace the current environment (V-Current) with candidate environment with new feature (V-Next). This approach is monitoring and capturing differences between two environments then compare and reduces all risks before you introduce a new feature/release.

> In our test cases, code coverage is very important however sometimes providing code coverage can be tricky to replicate real-life combinations and possibilities. In this approach, to test V-Next environment we have side by side deployment, we're replicating the same traffic with V-Current environment and directing same traffic to V-Next environment, the only difference is we don't return any response from V-Next environment to users but we collect those reponses to compare with V-Current reponses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In our test cases, code coverage is very important however sometimes providing code coverage can be tricky to replicate real-life combinations and possibilities. In this approach, to test V-Next environment we have side by side deployment, we're replicating the same traffic with V-Current environment and directing same traffic to V-Next environment, the only difference is we don't return any response from V-Next environment to users but we collect those responses to compare with V-Current responses.
```

![Shadow Testing Overview](images/shadow-testing.png)

 Referencing back to one of the [Principles of Chaos Engineering](https://principlesofchaos.org/), mentions importance of sampling real traffic like below:

> Systems behave differently depending on environment and traffic patterns. Since the behavior of utilization can change at any time, sampling real traffic is the only way to reliably capture the request path. To guarantee both authenticity of the way in which the system is exercised and relevance to the current deployed system, Chaos strongly prefers to experiment directly on production traffic.

With this Shadow Testing approach we're leveraging real customer behavior in V-Next environment with sampling real traffic and mitigating the risks which users may face on production. At the same time we're testing V-Next environment infrastructure for scaling with real sampled traffic. V-Next should scale with the same way V-Current does. We're testing actual behavior of the product and this cause zero impact to production to test new features since traffic is replicated to V-next environment.

> There're some similarities with [Dark Launching](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DarkLaunching.html), Dark Launching propose to integrate new feature into production release code and users are not able to see this feature, on the backend you can test your feature and improve the performance until it's acceptable. Also [Feature Toggle](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/FeatureToggle.html) approach is providing you an ability to enable/disable your new feature on the production on UI level, with this approach your new feature will be visible to users and you can collect feedback. Using Dark Launching with Feature Toggle approach can be very useful for introducing a new feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There're some similarities with [Dark Launching](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DarkLaunching.html), Dark Launching proposes to integrate new feature into production code, but users can't use the feature. On the backend you can test your feature and improve the performance until it's acceptable. It is also similar to [Feature Toggles](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/FeatureToggle.html) which provides you with an ability to enable/disable your new feature in production on a UI level. With this approach your new feature will be visible to users and you can collect feedback. Using Dark Launching with Feature Toggles can be very useful for introducing a new feature.
```

## Applicable to

- **Production deployments**: V-Next in Shadow testing always working separately and not effecting production. Users are not effected with this test.
- **Infrastructure**: Shadow testing replicating the same traffic, in test environment you can have the same traffic on the production. It helps to produce real life test scenarios
- **Handling Scale**: All traffic is replicated and you have a chance to see how your system scaling.

## Shadow Testing Frameworks and Tools

> There are some tools to implement shadow testing. Main purpose of these tools is to compare responses of V-Current and V-Next then find the diffrences.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are some tools to implement shadow testing. The main purpose of these tools is to compare responses of V-Current and V-Next then find the differences.
```

- [Diffy](https://github.com/opendiffy/diffy)
- [Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io)
- [McRouter](https://github.com/facebook/mcrouter)
- [Scientist](https://github.com/github/scientist)

> One of the most popular tool is [Diffy](https://github.com/opendiffy/diffy). It was created and used at Twitter then original author and a former Twitter employee maintains their own version of this project, called [Opendiffy](https://github.com/opendiffy/diffy). Twitter announced this tool on the blog as "[Testing services without writing tests](https://blog.twitter.com/engineering/en_us/a/2015/diffy-testing-services-without-writing-tests.html)".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One of the most popular tools is [Diffy](https://github.com/opendiffy/diffy). It was created and used at Twitter. Now the original author and a former Twitter employee maintains their own version of this project, called [Opendiffy](https://github.com/opendiffy/diffy). Twitter announced this tool on their engineering blog as "[Testing services without writing tests](https://blog.twitter.com/engineering/en_us/a/2015/diffy-testing-services-without-writing-tests.html)".
```

>  As of today Diffy is used in production by Twitter, Airbnb, Baidu and Bytedance companies. It explains shadow testing feature like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As of today Diffy is used in production by Twitter, Airbnb, Baidu and Bytedance companies. Diffy explains the shadow testing feature like this:
```

> Diffy finds potential bugs in your service using running instances of your new code and your old code side by side. Diffy behaves as a proxy and multicasts whatever requests it receives to each of the running instances. It then compares the responses, and reports any regressions that may surface from those comparisons. The premise for Diffy is that if two implementations of the service return “similar” responses for a sufficiently large and diverse set of requests, then the two implementations can be treated as equivalent and the newer implementation is regression-free.

![Diffy Shadow Testing Architecture](images/diffy-shadow-testing.png)

Diffy architecture

## Conclusion

> Shadow Testing is a useful approach to replicate production environment in a test environment. In test environment main purpose is to compare results with production environment.

Reviewer 3: I have difficulties understanding this sentence. Can you perhaps clarify a little what it means? I thought based on the above, that the main purpose of shadow testing was to being able to test items in production

Author: Thanks @TessFerrandez for your comments, I resolved all your comments. Please can you review the changes?

> With this approach:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some of the advantages of shadow testing are:
```

- Zero impact to production environment
- No need to generate test scenarios and test data

> - Test real-life scenarios with real-life data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- We can test real-life scenarios with real-life data.
```

> - Handle scale with replicated production traffic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- We can simulate scale with replicated production traffic.
```
